meta: update release guide with notes for major releases (#25497)
nodejs/node: doc/releases.md

_In whatever form you do this..._

## Differences for Major Releases

The process for cutting a new Node.js major release has a number of differences
from cutting a minor or patch release.

### Schedule

New Node.js Major releases happen twice per year:

> * Even Numbered Releases are cut in April

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Even-numbered releases are cut in April
```

> * Odd Numbered Releases are cut in October

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Odd-numbered releases are cut in October.
```

> Major releases should be targeted for the *third tuesday* of the release month.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Major releases should be targeted for the *third Tuesday* of the release month.
```

> Major releases should be targeted for the *third Tuesday* of the release month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Major releases should be targeted for the third Tuesday of the release month.
```

> A Major release *must not* slip beyond the release month (e.g. major releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Major release must not slip beyond the release month. In other words, major releases
```

> must not slip into May or November).

Reviewer: If the suggestion for the previous line is accepted, this one is needed too:

```suggestion
must not slip into May or November.
```

> The release date for the next major release *should be* announced immediately

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release date for the next major release should be announced immediately
```

following the current release (e.g. the release date for 13.0.0 should be
announced immediately following the release of 12.0.0).

### Release Branch

> Approximately three months before the a major release, new `vN.x` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Approximately three months before a major release, new `vN.x` and
```

`vN.x-staging` branches (where `N` indicates the major release) should be
created as forks of the `master` branch. Up until one month before the release

> date, these must be kept in sync with `master` and *must not* be considered to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date, these must be kept in sync with `master` and must not be considered to
```

be stable branches (e.g. they may be force pushed).

> The `vN.x` and `vN.x-staging` branches *must* be kept in sync with one another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `vN.x` and `vN.x-staging` branches must be kept in sync with one another
```

up until the date of release.

> One month or less before the release date, commits must be cherry-picked in to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One month or less before the release date, commits must be cherry-picked into
```

the two branches. To land `SEMVER-MAJOR` at this time requires no objections
from the TSC.

### Release Proposal

A draft release proposal should be created two months before the release. A
separate `vN.x-proposal` branch should be created that tracks the `vN.x`
branch. This branch will contain the draft release commit (with the draft

> change log).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changelog).
```

### Test Releases and Release Candidates

Test builds should be generated from the `vN.x-proposal` branch starting at
about 6 weeks before the release.

Release Candidates should be generated from the `vN.x-proposal` branch starting
at about 4 weeks before the release, with a target of one release candidate
per week.

Always run test releases and release candidates through the Canary in the
Goldmine tool for additional testing.

> ### Change Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Changelogs
```

Alternatively,

Generating major release changelogs is a bit more involved than minor and patch
changelogs.

#### Create the changelog file

In the `doc/changelogs` directory, create a new `CHANGELOG_V{N}.md` file where
`{N}` is the major version of the release. Follow the structure of the existing
`CHANGELOG_V*.md` files.

Note that the navigation headers in all of the `CHANGELOG_V*.md` files must be
updated to account for the new `CHANGELOG_V{N}.md` file.

Once the file is created, the root `CHANGELOG.md` file must be updated to

> reference the newly created major release `CHANGELOG_V{N}.md`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference the newly-created major release `CHANGELOG_V{N}.md`.
```

> reference the newly created major release `CHANLGELOV_V{N}.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reference the newly created major release `CHANGELOG_V{N}.md`.
```

#### Generate the changelog

To generate a proper major release changelog, use the `branch-diff` tool to
compare the `vN.x` branch against the `vN-1.x` branch (e.g. for Node.js 12.0,
we compare the `v12.x` branch against the up to date `v11.x` branch). Make sure
that the local copy of the downlevel branch is up to date.

The commits in the generated changelog must then be organized:

* Remove all release commits from the list
* Remove all reverted commits and their reverts
* Separate all SEMVER-MAJOR, SEMVER-MINOR, and SEMVER-PATCH commits into lists

#### Generate the notable changes

For a major release, all SEMVER-MAJOR commits that are not strictly internal,
test, or doc-related are to be listed as notable changes. Some SEMVER-MINOR
commits may be listed as notable changes on a case-by-case basis. Use your

> judgement there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
judgment there.
```
